<think>
Okay, let's see. The user is reporting an issue with the AArch64 EXT instruction when used on V registers in QEMU. They mention that the bits above 128 bits in the SVE register aren't being cleared to zero, which they say QEMU is retaining instead. The question is to classify this bug into one of the three categories: instruction, syscall, or runtime.

First, I need to understand what the EXT instruction does. From what I remember, the EXT (Extract) instruction in ARM NEON/SVE is used to shift elements from one vector to another. When dealing with SVE registers (which are wider than the traditional 128-bit V registers), the EXT instruction should handle the higher bits properly. The user is saying that after executing the EXT instruction on V registers (which are 128-bit), the bits beyond 128 in the SVE register (like z0) aren't being zeroed out. But wait, V registers are only 128 bits, right? So if you're using the V register form of the instruction, maybe the SVE part isn't supposed to be involved here. However, when SVE is enabled, the Z registers are wider (like 2048 bits or more, depending on the implementation). But the EXT instruction for V registers should operate only on the lower 128 bits, and the rest of the Z register should be zeroed or unaffected? Wait, the user is saying that after using EXT on V registers, the bits above 128 in z0 (which is the SVE register) are not cleared. But if the instruction is operating on V registers (which are 128-bit), perhaps the SVE part isn't involved here. However, in SVE, the Z registers are used, which are larger. Maybe when using the V registers, the upper bits of the Z register (beyond 128) should be zeroed. But the problem here is that after executing an EXT instruction on the V registers, those upper bits in the corresponding Z register (z0) are not being cleared. So QEMU is not correctly handling the fact that using the V register variant should zero out the higher bits in the SVE register. That sounds like an error in how the instruction is implemented in QEMU. Since the EXT instruction's behavior is incorrect in this specific scenario, this would fall under the "instruction" category. The syscall category is for system calls, which isn't the case here. Runtime errors are more about execution environment issues, but this is about incorrect instruction execution. So the answer should be "instruction".
</think>

instruction