<think>
Okay, let's see. I need to classify this bug report into one of the given categories for QEMU. The possible categories are mistranslation, assembly, other, device, graphic, socket, network, KVM, boot, vnc, debug, files, permissions, performance, kernel, peripherals, hypervisor.

The user provided two bug reports. Let me read them carefully.

First report: When using qemu-system-arm or qemu-system-aarch64 on Windows 7 and 10 with version 2.11.0 and 2.10.95 respectively, the programs crash at startup when using the "-M raspi2" argument. The error is in object.c line 176: type_get_parent assertion failed because type->parent_type is NULL.

Second report mentions similar crashes with different versions, but the user found an older installer that works, suggesting that newer versions might have broken this feature.

Now, I need to figure out which category fits. The error message points to a problem in QEMU's object model, specifically when trying to get the parent type of some object. This doesn't seem related to translation (mistranslation), assembly lowering (assembly), or other high-level issues like network or socket.

Looking at the categories: device might be relevant if it's an issue with hardware devices, but this seems more about the internal QEMU structures. The Raspi2 is a machine type, which could relate to how machines are defined in QEMU. However, the error message is about object types and their parent hierarchy not being set correctly.

Alternatively, 'other' is a catch-all category, but since it's an assertion failure in the type system, maybe 'hypervisor' isn't right either because that's more about KVM or other virtualization layers.

Wait, another angle: The error occurs during the initialization of QEMU when specifying a machine type (raspi2). This might be a problem with how the machine is being set up. Since it's an internal assertion failure related to object types, perhaps it's in the device model or the way devices are loaded for that machine.

But considering all categories, 'hypervisor' refers more to KVM and other virtualization features. 'Device' could be relevant if it's a problem with the hardware emulation. However, since this is a crash during startup when specifying the machine type, which might not necessarily be a device issue but rather an internal QEMU structure.

Hmm, another thought: The Raspi2 machine type relies on certain device models and perhaps the parent types are necessary for those devices to initialize correctly. If the parent_type is NULL, it could mean that the machine's object hierarchy isn't being set up properly, which might be a 'device' issue because devices depend on this structure.

Alternatively, since this is an internal QEMU assertion failure related to objects and their parents, maybe 'other' is the best fit. But I'm not entirely sure. Looking back at the categories: device refers to hardware emulation issues; perhaps if it's about how the machine type (which defines devices) is being handled.

Wait, but the problem occurs when specifying -M raspi2 or similar, which sets up a specific machine configuration. The crash is in object.c during type_get_parent, suggesting an issue with QEMU's internal type system for objects. This might not be directly related to any of the more specific categories like network or graphic.

So perhaps 'other' is appropriate here because it's an internal bug in QEMU's code that isn't fitting into the other more specific categories like device, network, etc.
</think>

The issue arises from an assertion failure in QEMU's object type system when specifying a machine type (raspi2), which doesn't fit into the more specific categories like device or hypervisor. 

**Answer:**

other