Set a core as the primary.
The ARM processors that are in most cell phones have this core structure, the first 4 cores have the lowest frequency, the next 3 cores have a decent frequency and then the last core is the one with the highest frequency of all.

Let's take as an example the Snapdragon 855 with its:
4× 1.8 GHz
3× 2.42 GHz
1x 2.84 GHz.

Well, as we know many old games and even today, for some reason use only 2 or 4 cores, these games for some reason if your PC has more cores at least about 8, the game crashes or goes slow, to fix it just limit the cores according to the game and immediately the FPS shoots up, doing this is simple even in winlator.

The problem really arises when a game needs 4 cores or 2 cores, since the game grabs the cores according to how they are numbered, that is if you have the last cores selected.

3x 2.42 GHz
1x 2.84 GHz.

The game will use the first cores on that list to process the most important parts of the game, and that is a problem, since the last core, if we look at the performance statistics, is not used even 10%, so the game uses it for something else, but that is not what we want it for, we want the core with the most GHZ to be first since this is the one that will give the FPS increase.

We can see that the new Snapdragon 8 Elite has something great, it is that all the cores have the same frequency, which is 4ghz, that is crazy. But in this processor there is no problem since all have the same frequency so there is no need to prioritize any core.

So I wanted to know if it is possible to select at least one core that will be at the head of the others, in this case it would be the one with the most GHZ, therefore the game will use that core for its most important functions and will not choose the one with the least GHZ.
Therefore it would be like this:

1x 2.84 GHz.
3x 2.42 GHz

Another example is the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3. On this phone, Red Dead Redemption runs at almost 60 FPS, but its first core is 3.0GHz, and the other cores are less than GHz.

If my Snapdragon 855 had its CPU7 in CPU0 at 2.8GHz, it would probably run Red Dead Redemption at about 30 FPS.