<think>
Okay, so I'm trying to figure out how to classify this bug report for QEMU. Let me read through it carefully.

The user is reporting an issue where the guest OS doesn't have the "xsave" feature when using the command line parameter "-cpu qemu64,+xsave,+avx". However, when they use "-cpu host", both 'avx' and 'xsave' features are present in the guest as shown by /proc/cpuinfo.

So, the problem is that adding "+xsave" to the CPU options isn't enabling the feature in the guest. The user also mentions that this isn't a new issue but has been around for some time.

Looking at the possible categories: I have to choose from mistranslation, assembly, other, device, graphic, socket, network, KVM, boot, vnc, debug, files, permissions, performance, kernel, peripherals, hypervisor.

The bug seems related to how CPU features are being handled in QEMU. The xsave feature is an x86 instruction set extension used for saving and restoring certain processor states. It's a hardware feature that should be exposed to the guest OS.

In this case, when using "-cpu qemu64,+xsave", the guest doesn't get the xsave feature, but when using "-cpu host", it does. So it's likely an issue with how QEMU handles CPU features in the qemu64 configuration versus the host configuration.

The problem might be that QEMU isn't correctly adding the xsave feature when explicitly specified, possibly due to a bug in how these features are passed or handled during VM setup. This could relate to how the CPU model is constructed in QEMU, perhaps an issue with the way xsave is being translated into the guest's CPU configuration.

The categories don't have something like "cpu-features" or similar, so I need to map it to one of the given options. Let's see:

- Mistranslation: This refers to incorrect semantic mapping from source architecture to IR/target. Since this seems related to how features are added to the CPU model (which is part of the translation process), mistranslation could be a possibility.

Other options like device, network, etc., don't seem relevant here because it's specifically about CPU features and not hardware devices or networking.

Wait, but maybe 'hypervisor' could also fit since QEMU acts as a hypervisor when using KVM. However, the issue is more about how CPU features are exposed to the guest, which might be part of the hypervisor's configuration rather than a bug in the hypervisor itself.

Alternatively, it's possible that this falls under 'other' because it doesn't neatly fit into the other categories provided. But I think 'mistranslation' is more appropriate here as it's about how QEMU maps features to the target CPU model.
</think>

mistranslation