graphic: 0.973
permissions: 0.952
network: 0.949
other: 0.946
device: 0.935
performance: 0.930
vnc: 0.929
socket: 0.925
semantic: 0.907
debug: 0.906
boot: 0.892
files: 0.879
KVM: 0.862
PID: 0.828

Corsair iCUE Install Fails, qemu VM Reboots

Hi,

I had this working before, but in the latest version of QEMU (built from master), when I try to install Corsair iCUE, and it gets to the driver install point => my Windows 10 VM just reboots! I would be happy to capture logs, but ... what logs exist for an uncontrolled reboot? Thinking they are lost in the reboot :-(.

Thanks!

Hi,

Slight update - as I decided to passthru my NIC as well => driver install there also causes a VM (Windows 10) reboot. Seems all driver installs fail?

Running on the latest master, QEMU emulator version 5.2.93 (v6.0.0-rc3).

Thanks!

FYI, to provide an update - I found a workaround! It's related to the CPU selection. I can't seem to pass through my host CPU, even with v6.0.0 of qemu. Rather, I have to use the qemu64 CPU.

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" or "Confirmed" within the next 60 days (other-
wise it will get closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate
the ticket automatically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter
of the bug in the new system and thus you won't get notified on changes
anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.



This is an automated cleanup. This bug report has been moved to QEMU's
new bug tracker on gitlab.com and thus gets marked as 'expired' now.
Please continue with the discussion here:

 https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues/320


Hi Russel, this bug has been migrated to the new GitLab issue tracker; can you provide me with some extra information over on the new tracker, please?

(I am *very* likely to miss updates here.)

1. What is your QEMU command line? (A full, working command-line, but the smallest one you can reproduce the problem with is helpful.)
2. What is your host environment? (distro/linux kernel version, CPU model)
3. What happens *exactly* when you try to install iCUE? Windows reboots -- in what way? Does it bluescreen, or does it just reboot immediately and then continue on as if nothing happened? Are there any errors/warnings/output from QEMU at all? Does QEMU crash?

Some other information that might be helpful if you have it:

4. Is there a version of QEMU where this works correctly for you still? Do you know when the problem appeared?
5. Depending on exactly how the VM reboots, you *may* have information in your windows event viewer logs -- do you see any warnings or errors in there that might be relevant?

