boot: 0.858
semantic: 0.835
graphic: 0.820
instruction: 0.742
device: 0.731
mistranslation: 0.680
other: 0.662
assembly: 0.576
network: 0.511
vnc: 0.489
socket: 0.478
KVM: 0.262

input-linux enter key stuck and/or broken

Using new input-linux evdev passthrough feature of qemu (qemu 2.6.0) causes enter key to be stuck down after executing a shell script to launch qemu guest, resulting in repeated new lines in terminal. After a certain point of guest boot, the enter key is no longer pressed. However, at least under Gnome on Wayland, when pressing both left+right Ctrl keys to return keyboard back to the host, the enter key no longer functions. The enter key continues to function when control is under the guest, but never returns to functionality in the host until a reboot is performed.

To further clarify: when keyboard control is under the host, enter key does not work while all other keys seem to work normally. When control of keyboard is under guest, all keys work normally including the enter key under the guest. This seems to be related to the enter key being stuck pressed after hitting enter to initially execute qemu / guest launch.

I would also like to add: after performing a shutdown in the guest OS, qemu terminates as normal and keyboard control is automatically passed back to the host. However, the enter key continues to not function until the host is restarted.

I can confirm this bug on Linux 4.7.1 with QEMU 2.6.0.  A workaround is to change to a different TTY and then back to the X display, which fixes the enter key for the rest of the QEMU session.

The QEMU project is currently considering to move its bug tracking to another system. For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be closed already. Thus we are setting older bugs to "Incomplete" now.
If you still think this bug report here is valid, then please switch the state back to "New" within the next 60 days, otherwise this report will be marked as "Expired". Or mark it as "Fix Released" if the problem has been solved with a newer version of QEMU already. Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

