Instability in IVSHMEM after updating QEMU 4.2 -> 5.0

Updating Ubuntu from 20.08 to 20.10 which updates QEMU from 4.2 to 5.0 results in the virtual machines freezing when the IVSHMEM interface is active.  This workstation typically runs several windows 10 virtual machines that are accessed locally:  two using the spice viewer and one that uses an passthrough assigned GPU accessed through a viewer called Looking Glass.  Looking Glass uses the IVSHMEM device interface to pass captured frames from the windows virtual machine to the linux host for display by a viewer application.

This workstation was 100% stable under Ubuntu 20.08 (QEMU 4.2).  It handled a variety of heavy loads all day it never froze or crashed.  It became unstable under Ubuntu 20.10 (QEMU 5.0), seemingly triggered by high levels of SHM activity.  I was able to reliably reproduce the problem when playing a video in the looking-glass vm while playing another video in a spice vm.  Other scenarios would also trigger this problem less reliably, but this video playback scenario would trigger it after 3-5 minutes of playback.

The result of this new instability would manifest itself by all running vms on the host freezing but the host was not visibly effected.  I could find no warnings or errors in any relevant system or QEMU logs.  It wasn't just spice, when I accessed the gpu-passthru vm via directly assigned devices it was frozen, still outputting video of the last frame before the crash.  All vms would have to be force-shutdown and the host rebooted to regain vm functionality.  Just forcing shutdown and restarting a vm would result in showing 'running' status but it would be frozen and inaccessible until system reboot.

I suspect this is a QEMU host / kernel error for several reasons:  Having to reboot the host, insensitivity to VM changes including virtio-win version, etc.  I suspect it's related to IVSHMEM due to the correlation of the freeze to the looking-glass related activity.

This might be kernel / PCIe / power management related in some way.  While experimenting to troubleshoot this issue I was able to trigger the error more quickly by disabling PCIe power management in the BIOS.

The system was 100% stable under QEMU 5.0 when not running the looking-glass vm, quite stable when the looking-glass vm was idle or lightly used, but appeared increasingly unstable as SHM activity increased.

Sorry if this is a bit anecdotal, this is my work machine and unfortunately today I was forced to rollback restore to Ubuntu 20.08 (QEMU 4.2) from backup so I can work on Monday.  The system returned to 100% stability after returning to 20.08.

If requested I can restore the Ubuntu 20.10 snapshot to reproduce & gather information as directed.