device: 0.644
other: 0.590
graphic: 0.570
semantic: 0.567
PID: 0.445
files: 0.441
network: 0.438
permissions: 0.419
KVM: 0.392
performance: 0.382
debug: 0.375
socket: 0.375
vnc: 0.312
boot: 0.306

[qemu-kvm] add vhost-net to kvm group udev rules 65-kvm.rules

Please consider authorizing the kvm group to access vhost-net device, similar to the kvm device.
Thanks!



I wonder if it really belongs to kvm group, -- maybe a separate "vhost_net" group should be used instead.  Yes it can only be used with qemu/kvm currently, but maybe some other tool will use it in the future, and looking at how many security issues /dev/kvm access had, maybe vhost_net shold be restricted more...

How other distributions are doing this?  I'm not sure we want to introduce our own naming here...

Well, at Gentoo we have kvm group, and I think that this comes from
upstream rule.
Doing vhost_net is good, anything that may be assigned to regular users.
Thanks!


Since there is no udev file in upstream QEMU, I guess this bug was meant for the qemu Ubuntu package instead?

The attachment "udef.diff" seems to be a patch.  If it isn't, please remove the "patch" flag from the attachment, remove the "patch" tag, and if you are a member of the ~ubuntu-reviewers, unsubscribe the team.

[This is an automated message performed by a Launchpad user owned by ~brian-murray, for any issues please contact him.]

Thank you for taking the time to report this bug and helping to make Ubuntu better.

I'm not sure if it would be appropriate to make this change, but it is clear what you're requesting so I'm setting the bug status to Triaged.

Hi,
I'm currently parsing through bug that are dormant way too long.

These days the content still exists, but is in debian/qemu-system-common.udev

But vhost-net is working fine without that change, so I wonder what it was back then that failed without that - so that we can verify if that actually is an issue today.

Until then setting incomplete.


[Expired for qemu (Ubuntu) because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

