
KVM Win 10 guest pauses after kernel upgrade



Hello!
Unfortunately the bug has apparently reappeared. I have a Windows 10 running in a VM, which after my today's "apt upgrade" goes into pause mode after a few seconds of running time.

Until yesterday it used to work and I was able to boot the VM. During the kernel update (from 5.4.0-28.33 to 5.4.0-29.34) the VM was active and then went into pause mode. Even after a reboot of my host system the problem still persists: the VM boots for a few seconds and then switches to pause mode.


Kind regards,
   Andreas









Note: might be related (or not) to bug 1866870
Let's analyze as independent and dup if it turns out to be a dup.

The warnings in the report like "MSR(48FH).vmx-exit-load-perf-global-ctrl" are unrelated (in regard to guest hang).
Those happen on
a) too old kernels that don't support the feature
b) mismatch of expectations of a chips vs its actual capabilities
E.g. if libvirt thinks a feature should be supported by a chip, but isn't.
There are toomany SKUs out there to be perfect - so these are red-herrings at best.

I have not seen similar reports recently nor anyone else chiming in on this one.
After loosing what e thought could be a track to the bgu I'm puzzled what to do now on this?

@Andreas - did you in the meantime find any new insight on this?

@Andreas - If we find nothing else to try I'll ping you when I have a newer qemu&libvirt build for Ubuntu 20.10 for you to try.

I haven't seen any similar reports nor any updates here.
Might I ask if you  have got any further since then?

Qemu 5.0 is available in Ubuntu 20.10 now, if you are willing to upgrade or install a test system that might be worth a try (new libvirt is still WIP, but unlikely to play a role here).
20.10 proposed would even have a 5.8.0.12.14 kernel since a kernel change might have been what started this that might be worth a check as well.

[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

[Expired for qemu (Ubuntu) because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

