Latest QEMU git build on Arch linux causes PCI Passthrough host to hang on guest reboot.

Current Arch linux release, up-to-date as of 7/21/2020.

Running a windows 7 virtual machine (also happens with windows 10, possibly more OSes), with an nvidia GTX 1060 passthrough, if the VM is attempted to be restarted, either through the guest interface, or by libvirt's gui interface "Virtual Machine Manager", it hangs in a "paused" state once the VM shutsdown, and just before the reboot can take place.  A force-stop of the VM allows the VM to be properly booted without any disk error checks, alluding to a clean shutdown, but failed reboot.  The VM can be properly shutdown using the guests shutdown function, or the libvirt manager shutdown, without any hangs.  Reverting to Arch stable build QEMU 5.0.0-7 fixes the issue.

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" within the next 60 days (otherwise it will get
closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate the ticket auto-
matically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter of the bug
in the new system and thus won't get notified on changes anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

