older OS's do not detect CD change

There are at least two older operating systems, being FreeBSD 2.2 and FreeDOS 1.2, that misbehave when the change command is used on the IDE CD drive, and work fine on a real machine.  In both cases, changing the CD causes the guest to either refuse to read the disc or appear to read bad data, and in both cases the guest read the disc without issue after a system_reset.

A HD image that demonstrates this behavior can be produced if necessary, however the FreeDOS 1.2 CD can be booted directly and used to test:

http://freedos.org/download/download/FD12CD.iso

(choose install then abort and you get a prompt in which you can type "dir D:", say)

note, running eject before the change command does nothing to help.

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" or "Confirmed" within the next 60 days (other-
wise it will get closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate
the ticket automatically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter
of the bug in the new system and thus you won't get notified on changes
anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

