
Provide target specific qemu man pages

Right now, all qemu target binaries (qemu-system-...) share the same man page.

The current man page is primarily focused on x86, and therefore the information given is entirely wrong for e.g. arm, powerpc or s390x.

NAME
       qemu-doc - QEMU Emulator User Documentation

SYNOPSIS
       qemu-system-i386 [options] [disk_image]

DESCRIPTION
       The QEMU PC System emulator simulates the following peripherals:

       -   i440FX host PCI bridge and PIIX3 PCI to ISA bridge

       -   Cirrus CLGD 5446 PCI VGA card or dummy VGA card with Bochs VESA extensions (hardware level, including all non
           standard modes).

       -   PS/2 mouse and keyboard

       -   2 PCI IDE interfaces with hard disk and CD-ROM support

       -   Floppy disk

...

We should have target specific man pages, with the common options/settings factored out, so they are included in all target specific man pages.

"man qemu-system-s390x" should give s390x specific (+common) information and "man qemu-system-x86_64" should contain x86 specific (+common) information.

I'm kind of hoping that moving to Sphinx for our docs toolchain will allow us to for instance have the board specific information in doc comments in each board source file, which could then be automatically assembled into the right documentation. The current manpages are autobuilt from the monolithic qemu-doc.texi, which is woefully out of date in many areas...


The QEMU project is currently considering to move its bug tracking to another system. For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be closed already. Thus we are setting older bugs to "Incomplete" now.
If you still think this bug report here is valid, then please switch the state back to "New" within the next 60 days, otherwise this report will be marked as "Expired". Or mark it as "Fix Released" if the problem has been solved with a newer version of QEMU already. Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

