Armitage crashes KVM guest with Kali2016.2 for QXL video

I recently got a strange bug which seems to be related to qemu-kvm and QXL. I came here via the hints of the KVM web-site for KVM/qemu bug tracking. But, I am not sure whether this is the right bug-tracker at all. Please advise me if I placed the report wrongly. 

I installed Kali2016.2 as a KVM guest on a Opensuse Leap 42.1 host (fully updated). The KVM guest machine was configured to use a spice display and QXL video. Everything OK with the installation with the exception of one major application with a Java interface - Armitage. 

Armitage is correctly configured and starts (with some minor Java errors) and opens its interface (msf console, target window  etc.) Trying to open the 2 specific menu points "Hosts" or "Attack" in the menu bar leads to something very strange: The screen flickers, then the whole login session is stopped and a standard login window opens. This happens independently of the setting for the type of Armitage target window (graphical or table like)  

Why do I report this bug here? 
Because it happens with the QXL graphical video interface ONLY - not with video=vga or vmvga ! Neither does the bug occur when Armitage is started in a ssh (-X) session from the host. 

So, it is closely related to qemu-kvm AND QXL and the Java interaction with both. 

I really wonder what in the world can make 2 specific menu points of a Java application crash a KVM guest and restart a login shell in Kali only when QXL is used?  

qemu-kvm version : 2.3.1
Kernel version of OS LEAP 42.1: Linux 4.1.31-30-default           

I have described the bug also to the Kali people - see https://bugs.kali.org/view.php?id=3698

Please inform me what further data are required - if this is relevant in this bug-tracker at all.

If it's related to QXL, you should likely rather report this bug to the Spice people instead of QEMU. See https://www.spice-space.org/support.html for more information.

Is this still an issue with the latest version? Did you ever report it to the Spice project?

Can be closed - did not happen in later versions

Ok, thanks for your answer, so I'm closing this ticket now.

