Intermittently erratic mouse under Windows 95

The mouse works fine maybe 75-80% of the time, but intermittently (every 20-30 seconds or so), moving the mouse will cause the pointer to fly around the screen at high speed, usually colliding with the edges, and much more problematically, click all the mouse buttons at random, even if you are not clicking. This causes random objects on the screen to be clicked and dragged around, rendering the system generally unusable.

I don't know if this is related to #1785485 - it happens even if you never use the scroll wheel.

qemu version: 5.0.0 (openSUSE Tumbleweed)

Launch command line: qemu-system-i386 -hda win95.qcow2 -cpu pentium2 -m 16 -vga cirrus -soundhw sb16 -nic user,model=pcnet -rtc base=localtime

OS version: Windows 95 4.00.950 C

I have made the disk image available here: https://home.gloveraoki.me/share/win95.qcow2.lz

Setup notes: In order to make Windows 95 detect the system devices correctly, after first install you must change the driver for "Plug and Play BIOS" to "PCI bus". I have already done this in the above image.

Weirdly, this problem doesn't occur when running qemu on macOS (10.15.5). It only happens on my PC running openSUSE Tumbleweed.

However, even on that PC, it only affects Windows 95, and not Windows 98, or other operating systems.

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting older bugs to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" within the next 60 days (otherwise it will get
closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate the ticket auto-
matically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter of the bug
in the new system and thus won't get notified on changes anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

