CTRL+ALT is ignored on gtk window (configured with gtk and sdl)

I am building and using qemu on Windows 10 via git.
Building for targeting windows, on debian.

Since meson is introduced, my executable, qemu-system-x86_64.exe, tends to ignore hotkeys
(like CTRL+ATL+G, CTRL+ALT+2)

As far as I have been investigating the issue, I am suspicious that gtk and sdl might be incompatible.
With configure --disable-sdl, my executable works fine.
My application doesn't require sdl.

Possibly due to link order, especially SDLmain, I guess.

I suggest;
- Clarify that gtk and sdl are incompatible.
- Tweak built script or startup not to prevent gtk and sdl each other.

Excuse me, the issue has not been reproduced at home yet. I met it at work.
(My manager said it's fine to report issues by me at home)
I will construct reproducible environment at home, if my further investigation would be required.

Thanks.

Can you still reproduce the issue with the latest release QEMU v6.0?

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" or "Confirmed" within the next 60 days (other-
wise it will get closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate
the ticket automatically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter
of the bug in the new system and thus you won't get notified on changes
anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

