files: 0.874
performance: 0.852
device: 0.820
graphic: 0.818
other: 0.749
semantic: 0.693
network: 0.658
permissions: 0.618
socket: 0.573
vnc: 0.535
debug: 0.528
PID: 0.431
boot: 0.348
KVM: 0.316

Aten USB to Serial bridge does not work with qemu under Windows 10

I would like to use MSDOS 6.22 with qemu (unfortunatelly lot of our test programs has been written in dos).
I tried to connect two laptop by RS232 port, one of the machine have a built-in serial port and run with native MSDOS 6.22 with 4.0 norton commander. Another machine have only USB ports and i try to use a new Aten USB to Serial device. Ok. Has been started qemu with -serial and -chardev parameters, at startup appear a window with serial port setting such as baud rate, start bit, etc...

Quemu has been satrted succeeded but serial port cannot be used becouse was nothing activited on usb serial adapter :(

I tried same configuration with VirtualBox and everything was worked fine (serial connection was estabiled and copied several files from one machine into another machine), seems to be the emulated serial port has been worked fine.

I would like to use qemu, i just thougt qemu is better, simple and faster...

Exists solution or is this a qemu bug?

Thank you!

I forgot that the environment is Windows 10 64 bit.

Hi again,

Seems to be there is no solution for my problem :(
I have succeeded create NTVDMx64 patch on my Windows 10 installation, so i can run directly 16 bit ms dos applications without any dos emulator.
I take the initiative to close the bug.

Bye

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" or "Confirmed" within the next 60 days (other-
wise it will get closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate
the ticket automatically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter
of the bug in the new system and thus you won't get notified on changes
anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

