other: 0.928
files: 0.887
performance: 0.878
device: 0.815
semantic: 0.728
network: 0.702
graphic: 0.683
PID: 0.663
permissions: 0.634
socket: 0.585
vnc: 0.539
debug: 0.515
KVM: 0.483
boot: 0.447

shrink option for discard (for bad host-filesystems and -backup solutions)

When using discard=unmap for virtio or scsi devices with QCOW2 images, space discarded by the guest will be unmaped on the host, which is basically great!

This will turn the QCOW2 image into a sparse file which is efficient for most scenarios. But it may be that you need to avoid big sparse files on your host. For example because you need to use a backup solution which doesn't support sparse files well. Or maybe the QCOW2 image is on a filesystem mount which doesn't support sparse files at all.

For those scenarios an alternative option for the discard setting (discard=shrink) would be great, so that the QCOW2 file itself gets shrunken again.
I'm not sure about how the initial growing* of QCOW2 images is implemented and if there are maybe limitations. But I hope it may be possible do the inverse and actually shrink (not sparse) an QCOW2 image with internally discarded blocks.


I'm using Qemu-5.2.0 and Linux >= 5.3 (host and guest).

*If you use "qemu-img create -f qcow2 ..." withOUT the "preallocation" option.

The QEMU project is currently moving its bug tracking to another system.
For this we need to know which bugs are still valid and which could be
closed already. Thus we are setting the bug state to "Incomplete" now.

If the bug has already been fixed in the latest upstream version of QEMU,
then please close this ticket as "Fix released".

If it is not fixed yet and you think that this bug report here is still
valid, then you have two options:

1) If you already have an account on gitlab.com, please open a new ticket
for this problem in our new tracker here:

    https://gitlab.com/qemu-project/qemu/-/issues

and then close this ticket here on Launchpad (or let it expire auto-
matically after 60 days). Please mention the URL of this bug ticket on
Launchpad in the new ticket on GitLab.

2) If you don't have an account on gitlab.com and don't intend to get
one, but still would like to keep this ticket opened, then please switch
the state back to "New" or "Confirmed" within the next 60 days (other-
wise it will get closed as "Expired"). We will then eventually migrate
the ticket automatically to the new system (but you won't be the reporter
of the bug in the new system and thus you won't get notified on changes
anymore).

Thank you and sorry for the inconvenience.


[Expired for QEMU because there has been no activity for 60 days.]

